there are over 200 factors in google's
algorithm wouldn't it be great if you
could rank higher on google without
learning each of those factors hey
everyone i'm neil patel and today i'm
going to break down a minimalist
approach to seo the only three things
you should do every week to get traffic
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
if you're overwhelmed and don't have
lots of time to invest it's important to
know where to focus your efforts
sure it would be great to do everything
but that's not always realistic
and instead of doing everything that you
read online about seo let's see the
activities that will produce the most
impact on your business
so number one optimizing existing
content now optimizing existing content
is all about finding new keywords
sitting on page two and three and
optimizing forum
what you also want to end up doing is
going to google search console and then
looking to see which pages are getting
the most impressions but the least
amount of clicks and within there you
want to click on those pages and look to
see which keywords are getting a lot of
impressions that are on page two or
bottom of page one that you may not be
talking about too much within your
content and then what you'll want to do
is update the content to include those
keywords you may also want to include
those keywords within your title tag and
your meta description
the next thing when it comes to updating
content is deleting your underperforming
content see
just because you write content and you
generate a lot of links to it it doesn't
mean that it's a good piece of content
it doesn't mean that it's going to rank
it doesn't mean that it's going to get
social shares just some content even
though people link to it
they just don't care to read about it
and that's the harsh reality of content
marketing a lot of times you write
content that you don't think is amazing
but other people love it and they link
to it like crazy so you want to take
your underperforming content and you'll
want to delete those pages and if it's
related to any other article you'll want
to do a 301 redirect from the old url to
the newer article
the next thing when it comes to updating
content is consolidating content if you
have three articles on the beginner's
guide to seo the ultimate guide to seo
and
you know um the all-in-one guide to seo
i'm making it up as you can see so if
you take those three articles they're
pretty much just about seo and how it
works it's just different ways of saying
the beginner's guide to seo or the guide
to seo and what you'll want to do is
consolidate them because when you have
multiple conflicting articles google
won't know which one to rank number one
or on page one or which one to not rank
and a lot of times you'll see your pages
flip-flopping
and you'll see for a certain keyword
that different pages will rank on page
one or page two and just like wait what
the heck and that's because you're
sending conflicting signals to google if
you combine those articles into one the
best piece of all of them you take the
url that's performing the best that has
the most backlinks as well you do 301
redirects from the old ones to the new
one and what you'll want to do is update
all internal links going to any of the
older urls and put them to a new one if
you do that what you'll find is you'll
send less conflicting signals to google
and you'll start ranking higher not just
for that page but your whole site
when we're also talking about updating
content i also want to discuss
refreshing content that brings traffic
to your website there's a lot of content
that is already doing well and is
generating traffic on your site but what
you'll find is when you log into google
search console some of these articles
will drop in traffic over time or
they'll continually rise the ones that
drop you'll want to google the terms
that you were getting more track from
before and see who's ranking above you
what are they doing that you're not and
i want you to fix that by updating the
content on your site to make it better
than all the competitors
also if your article is continually
doing well what are the keywords that
are driving you this increase in traffic
what could you do to even make it more
related to those keywords and better so
that way you can get even more traffic
now the next tactic that i want you to
focus on
is doing competitive analysis to guide
your content efforts
here's what i mean by this right so we
already discussed updating content now
we're talking about competitive analysis
what topics are your competition writing
about how in-depth are they what are
their top-ranked pages what could you
know you be doing to be better than them
when it comes to creating content and
you want to go more in-depth in them and
better than them so what i want you to
do is head over to ubersuggest
and i want you to type in your domain
now when you type in your domain you'll
get a report of your top pages your
traffic the keywords you're ranking for
but you'll also see in the left-hand
navigation option to look at competing
domains so you want to end up looking at
all the other sites that are similar to
you and what this uber says report does
is it shows you all the similar keywords
that you rank for that other people also
rank for and it also shows you the
keyword gaps those same websites that
rank for similar keywords they rank for
keywords that you don't rank for and
ubersys will show you this and i want
you to use that rapport to now come up
with a list of new keywords to create
content around
in addition to that take those
competitor urls and look up their top
pages in ubersys
this report breaks down their most
popular pages from top to bottom it
shows you who's linking to them
and
it shows you those keywords that each of
those top pages are ranking for this
will also give you new content ideas in
case you don't cover any of the topics
that they're generating a lot of traffic
for that you're not generating any
traffic for and this will give you ideas
of what type of content to create
the last tactic that i want you to end
up spending time on is creating new
content so we talked about updating your
old content doing competitor analysis
now let's talk about creating new
content
content clusters around keywords that
your website has the potential to rank
for that's what i mean
so if you go back to ubersuggest you
type in a keyword let's say i go after
seo
in uber says in the keyword ideas report
there's actually an option where you can
actually put in your domain name and
it'll adjust the keywords that you have
the ability to rank for now this is
important because even if you want to
rank for a term like credit cards or
online gambling or seo some of those
keywords are just so difficult that
it may not be the right term to rank for
right now or try to go after but years
from now or maybe even six months from
now it could be the right opportunity
but you want to focus your efforts right
now on keywords that you have the
potential to rank for or else you're
going to be wasting time writing content
that's going to generate very little to
no traffic so once you put in your
domain name ubercs will then filter the
results so you what keywords you can
rank for that are going to be much
easier and those are the ones that you
should start creating content around and
create content clusters what i mean by
this is you know if i was writing
content around seo i'll talk about seo
on-page seo speeding up your website
link building uh creating content
generating social shares uh broken
backlink building i would go so in-depth
around the topic that google will be
like wow this neilpatel.com is really
the authority when it comes to seo or
digital marketing so let's rank them
higher
now if you need help with any of these
three strategies plus the other
197 plus other factors you can you know
always leave a comment below i'm here to
help or if you just want my team to do
all this for you check out my ad agency
np digital where we're here to help you
grow your traffic
if you enjoy the video like it share it
tell the people about it thank you for
watching